Detail: Final Project (Portfolio) Choice Board
GoogleSheet Choice BoardLinks to an external site.

The sheet includes:

    Tab 1: Choice Board
    Tab 2: Rubric
    Tab 3: Weights 
    Tab 4: Portfolio parts
    Example of the portfolio

You will use this choice board to choose unique activities for your final portfolio for the course (any product cannot be repeated more than twice). See the Details page for more information about the Final Project / Portfolio. Here's what you'll find on the spreadsheet:

TAB 1: Choice Board

There are 14 "Product Types" listed in the far left column. There are specific expectations for each type of product, outlined below.

There 14 "Genres" listed across the top row, you can use course resources or ones you find yourself. Many of these resources will appear in the course, or they will be things that you're asked to find as part of a given module's journal entry or discussion board. Information about the genres is found below.

Tab 2: Rubric

The rubric for any project includes an assessment of the following considerations: (1) Use and interpretation of sources, (2) Understanding of the topic/trend,  (3) Product-specific communication, (4) Synthesis and originality, and (5) Audience, clarity, and professionalism. Each of the five categories can earn up to five points: (5) Excellent: thoughtful, accurate, well-supported, polished; (4) Strong: clear and mostly well-supported, with minor gaps     (3) Developing: basic understanding, limited synthesis or uneven execution, (4) Emerging: minimal, unclear, inaccurate, or weakly connected to sources  , or (5) Missing or not accessible.

Tab 3: Weights

Each artifact you produce is worth up to 50 points, and you'll need to earn at least 200 points to pass the Portfolio aspect of this course. As per the course syllabus, 200 points is 80% of the "Portfolio" grade, which is itself 50% of the overall course grade. 

The grade for each artifact that you create for your portfolio is not something that I grade (per se), but something YOU grade. Yes, I'll have feedback, but the actual score for each piece is generated via your input, which then accounts for weighted totals. The 50 points fore each artifact is broken down into 5 categories:

            Product Type (7.5 pts., 15%)
                Genre (2.5 pts., 5%)
                Your Opinion of Your Work Input (12.5 pts., 25%)
                Your Evaluation of Your Work Output (7.5 pts., 15%)
                Time Spent to Design, Build, Refine Artifact (20 pts., 40%)

The system is far from perfect. Please note that I'm willing to consider exceptions to how any given project is scored on a case-by-case basis. I can be somewhat flexible with the system should your own thoughts and insights provide a sound rationale for change.  

Tab 3: Portfolio Pieces

As you develop artifacts for your portfolio (based on the Choice Board), you'll make a copy of the spreadsheet and input your work. You can then track how many points you're earning, etc.

Tab 4: Example

A fictional student's work output and how they earned various points.

Choice Board & Work Record

IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER!

The descriptions below are based on my initial thoughts about what various products might look like. Please understand that I am open to your interpretation of the products (or even genres), but I would appreciate it if you could run your idea(s) by me first so that I can understand what you're thinking. The "big idea" is not to restrict you, but to give you general guidelines about what various assignments might look like. Creativity is highly valued, just as sincere effort and polished products are.

GENERAL EXPECTATIONS FOR PRODUCT TYPES

N. B. Any academic piece you develop must follow APA formatting guidelines for in-text and the references list.

Product A: Compose a manuscript for submission to a journal

Certainly the most time-consuming of any task on the list; it requires you to create a substantive piece (likely >7,500 words). To do this particular assignment, you'd have to identify a handful of journals to which you would like to submit your manuscript, and have a good plan in place as to what you'll cover.

Product B: Compose an academic essay

This would be a formal, research-based essay of approximately 1,500 - 2,500 words (up to 10 - 20 pages). Preferably, it would be the start of an article that could be submitted to a journal or, perhaps, a book chapter. All of the 'normal' writing conventions, including APA style, must be adhered to.

Product C: Create a substantive Multimedia piece

You would create an audio + visual piece that could be shared on a platform like YouTube. It would be approximately 3-10 minutes in length (depending on genre). This would be a highly polished production that provides insight into dystopian literature and AI / education. Since this might take some time to develop, you can submit a storyboard as a "portfolio component" if need be.

Product D: Create an Audio Experience

Although quite a number of podcasts already exist about AI, none that I've seen mix together dystopian visions & AI. You could perhaps develop a script for at least one podcast (up to 2 hours long?) that might include your insights, guest interviews, etc. What would be submitted would be more than just one episode, but an idea for a series (not every episode would have to be scripted out). Another variation of an audio experience might be to do a reading of an open source short-story or articles.

Product E: Develop a Research Poster

A "poster" here does not necessarily mean a paper-based poster that one might see displayed at an academic conference (these tend to be 48" high x 32" high). You CAN do a poster for a conference (either real or imagined). However, you can also do an interactive poster using web-based tools such as thinglinkLinks to an external site., CanvaLinks to an external site., Adobe ExpressLinks to an external site., or Google Drawing or Presentations. This would be a highly polished product in its final iteration.

Product F: Write short-form fiction or poetry

This product might prove extremely challenging, as even writing a compelling short story, play, or poem can take an extraordinary amount of work. It must be about the topic at hand (dystopia /AI/ education). If one is writing a short story, it would likely be at least 5,000 words and up to 15,000. The play should be comprised of at least 4 scenes that would take perhaps 1/2 hour to perform (?). There is no length limit imposed for poetry, but if writing a very short poem (unless it's a sonnet, which has much more structure), you should do more than just one.

Product G: Short graphic novel or Cartoon Strips

The product could either be a short graphic novel or a series of cartoons that have a theme about dystopia / AI detailed or described in one or more of the genres (the story should be your own creative input, but the artwork need not be).

Product H: Develop a Game or Gamified Scenario

The product here would be comprised of some narrative to give the reader an idea about gameplay for a scenario that involves dystopia / AI / education. The length is probably at least 5-10 pages (or a multi-slide storyboard). The product should include graphics of some kind to give the idea of setting.

Product I: Create a playlist or guide

You can create a page-long list that YOU develop that takes listeners on an audio (or video) tour of dystopia, etc. It might be a set of 12 - 20 songs that one can listen to on Apple Music, Spotify, or another service, but it might be a list of podcast/vodcast episodes that you've found compelling. The list might well be something akin to a YouTube playlist or even a channel.

Product J: Create a Social Media Strategy

For this product, you would assume the role of a social media manager or content producer. You would build out a strategy that would help inform (and entertain) people about dystopian views & AI / education. The length of such a document is not set, but it should probably be 2-3 pages. In it, you should identify what you would be broadcasting, via which platforms (ex., X, Instagram, Tik Tok, Reels, etc.), the timeline involved, etc. The idea would be social media about our topic that would engage users for up to month (so, 30 posts or so). Describe how the platforms would be synergistic. The posts / images would have to be developed out.

Product K: Develop a questionnaire or interview related to one or more research questions.

The product here would be accompanied by a research proposal of some kind (5 pages or so). You would have to identify the participants, methodology, etc. The questionnaire / interview would be about the topics we're studying here. If you need more information about building a proposal, contact me.

Product L: Develop an assessment

The thought here is that you would build a test (or a set of quizzes) that relate to the plot of a novel or short story, or news articles about AI, or related content. It might instead be one or more writing prompts. The audience would be high school age or above. It may or may not be part of a lesson plan.

Product M: Create a Lesson Plan or Training Plan

For those of you who are teachers or designers, feel free to create a lesson plan about dystopia & AI. It should be about 3-5 pages long and be highly detailed with respect to context, association with state standards, objectives, audience, activities, evaluations, etc.

Product N: Write a review to be published by a trade or academic outlet

This would be a completed book review that would be submitted to a journal or trade publication. The text reviewed should be a 2022 imprint or later. If you do this review, you have to include the article guidelines for the outlet to which you'll submit your piece. The length of the review will depend on the author guidelines for that outlet.

SOURCES FOR GENRES

1. Literature (novels): A page in this Canvas course lists many*

2. Literature (short stories, poems, etc.): A page in this Canvas course lists many*

3. Movies or Streaming Series: A page in this Canvas course lists many*

4. Academic books: A page in this Canvas course lists many*

5. Academic articles & chapters: A page in this Canvas course lists many*

6. News or Magazine Articles: find these on your own or use ones that may appear in various course modules

7. Speeches or Interviews: find these on your own or use ones that may appear in various course modules

8. Music or SoundScapes: find these on your own or use ones that may appear in various course modules

9. Visual Creative Works: find these on your own or use ones that may appear in various course modules

10. Video Games: games like Detroit, Fallout, Last of Us, etc.

11. Animé or Manga: A page in this Canvas course lists some*

12. Social Media or Vlogs: find these on your own or use ones that may appear in various course modules

13. Podcasts or Blogs: A page in this Canvas course lists many*

14. Opinion Pieces: find these on your own or use ones that may appear in various course modules

    If you use resources that are not listed on a page developed for this course, please contact me about it first.
