Detail: Final Project (Portfolio) Overview
WHAT WILL YOU BE DOING?

The final project is a portfolio of assignments that you complete during the semester. The assignments you create come from the Choice Board, which lists 12 different product types (ex., essays, multimedia pieces, creative works, etc.) that are based on up to 10 different types of expression (ex., novels, streaming media, academic literature, etc.). 

You are not completing one product for each genre (that would be >100 items!). Rather, you choose what you're going to do, then you make/create those things, and then present them in portfolio form. What that portfolio looks like is described below.
WHAT GETS INCLUDED?

You will include only the "Choice Board" activities that you choose. You can include writing from journal entries, discussions, class papers, etc.

EXAMPLE OF THE FINAL PROJECT

Student "Jaime BlueTurf" chose the following tasks to complete from Choice Board. 

    A2: An essay about a dystopian movie
    B1: A multimedia product about a piece of literature
    D3: A poster about a streaming series
    E4: A fictional dialogue for a scene based on a podcast
    H5: Develop an interview inspired by an opinion piece

Beyond the completed tasks (aka "artifacts") that you include, there are other aspects to include as well:

1) A cover page (or intro page) with your name, data, Course Name, and my name

2) An abstract that gives the viewer an overview of what they'll find in it

3) A table of contents (except in a website, which should have obvious navigation elements)

4) The artifacts you created from the Choice Board.

5) A reflection about what you've learned from the course. You CAN include writing already done (don't worry about 'self-plagiarism'). You might go back and read your journal entries or course discussions to help you compose this. It should be between 500 to 1,000 words.

6) A "Declaration of A.I. Usage." You will describe how you used A.I. in the brainstorming or creation of any of your work. Be specific.

7) References (this IS an academic course, after all, and if you make claims about anything, cite your sources, and list those in this section using APA 7 format).
WHAT SHOULD THE PORTFOLIO LOOK LIKE?

The portfolio can take one of many different formats; some examples are listed below. No matter what format you choose, however, the number one goal is for the portfolio to (A) look amazing, (B) be super easy to navigate, and (C) include all required components.

1) A simple website (like in GoogleSites) that embeds/links* each artifact.

2)  A single GoogleDoc that embeds/links* each artifact.

3) A GoogleSlides presentation or Canva (or insert your favorite media here) version that embeds/links* each artifact and the other required pieces

4) Other ideas (but ask me first and show proof-of-concept).

    If a link to the artifact is used, it should accompanied by a representative image.

And no, there are no examples of any of these, as this is the first time I've ever done this in a class. Good news? You're a lab rat in a new experiment and you'll have a hard time failing. Bad news? tHe AnXieTy of doing something without something you can emulate.
HOW IS IT ASSESSED?

Take a look at the rubric listed on the Rubrics page (left navigation panel).
WHAT HAPPENS IN PEER REVIEWS?

The Peer Review is an ungraded but required part of the portfolio submission. Students will review each others' portfolio products as they are developed and submitted. Each student will also review at least one final portfolio. The feedback sheet will include the rubric associated with the project. Any points that the reviewer associates with the work will NOT be added to or subtracted from your final project grade.
WHEN IS IT DUE?

Components: From the end of Week 3, to the end of Week 8, students will submit at least one component of their portfolio. The submission will be a link posted to a course discussion board so that other students can see the work (and so peer reviewers can access it). What you submit needs to be in "nearly done" form, and not just a rough draft.

Final Project: The version for peer review is due at the end of Week 9. The final, completed version is due at the end of Week 10.
CAN I USE A.I. TO HELP COMPLETE IT?

First, be sure to read the statement about A.I. in the course syllabus. You can use A.I., but you have to identify EVERY single aspect of A.I. that you use as part of it. In fact, if you'll notice in the details above, any format you use MUST include a "Declaration of A.I. Usage" statement in it.